Okay, today's video is a little different and
quite important.  You should know for awareness.
I want to talk about health insurance.  What should I do
if you face similar problems like what happened to me and your claim is
not approved?  In what case will it
pass?  It cannot happen, what to keep in mind
, how to be wise while taking health insurance
, I am going to talk about all this.
First I thought of discussing this topic on GT Plus
's second channel.  On that channel
I often talk to you on many different topics.
But I thought
why not post this video on the main channel itself.
Because health insurance is one such thing.
Normally nowadays many people
take health insurance.  There are different types of insurance
available in the market.  I have health insurance
, life insurance, car insurance,
property insurance, office insurance, I don't know what all.
Actually, I had my own personal
claim which was not being rejected
, nor was it being passed, it was stuck.
Then I had to
bring my image of knowledge therapy, different from Rakesh, into the issue.
Then how did you pass?  I was
talking about all that on Twitter.  Then I
tweeted and asked, should I provide the video
?  What was my experience?   There were a lot of
replies.  The video should definitely be given
because it will be
useful to many people for awareness.  So I said yes, let's
talk about this on the main channel today.  So let's talk
Jai Hind friends.  How are you?  So
I will tell my case also.  I
will also tell you what smartness you have to show.  I
will also tell you what problems I faced.  And
as I said in the tweet, this was the
first time I had taken health insurance from a company
and it was the first time
I had applied for a claim.  So
I don't know much about who
is the best and how he is the best.  But here
some other things come out
in the matter of best and along with that I have taken help from
someone.  Now we will talk about them
so that I can give you more information which will be
useful to you.  So watch the entire video and
share it with whoever you can around you
if it can be useful.  I think this is the
purpose of this video.  So the story
begins from here.  First of all I
took my health insurance from Nivapa, a
company.  You must be knowing about health insurance from them.  The
basic rule is that you
give money, you can give it monthly, you can give it yearly.
So the options are multiple.   The
work of health insurance is that
if God forbid, you ever have to
go to the hospital or some problem occurs, you have to be
admitted, then there are two cases.
First cashless.  What is cashless?   The
health insurance company from which you have health
insurance will come and check some things.
After some verification, you will have to pay some
basic money and the company will pay the entire hospital bill.
And the second case is
if that hospital is not in the list of that company
then you will have to pay the money from your pocket.
That company will give you the money later.
After verification, your documents
etc. will be checked and then you will get your money.
This was the basic rule.
This time I went to the second case.  Meaning I had to
take the money later.  But the story turned out to be quite different.  Many of
you might know that
I have recently become a father.
This has become a maternity case.  So obviously
when my wife was admitted to the hospital,
a bill would have come.  Some money must have been spent.
I gave that money from my pocket.
When I get the bill, I get the discharge
summary of everything.  Details are available.  I
reached home.  After that I applied.
I said let's try applying and see.  I had
taken health insurance.
Remember that in all health insurances,
money is not available in case of maternity.   It is
available in some and not in others.  There are
different plans with different premiums.
In my case, I could have got a maximum of Rs 75,000.
So I thought God forbid if any
problem occurs tomorrow.  So
how easily do these health insurance companies
pass the claim later or how does it happen?
How do I get money?  Why not see this?
Normally I am such a personal person.  I
mean, this is my personal matter that I have taken health
insurance etc.
I pay less attention to things like EMI or health insurance.  I focus more on personal
savings or what I can do with what I have.   The
same preference remains.  But when I got it done,
I said, come on brother, let's see this, I have
paid the right amount.  Why won't you take it now?
So I contacted Nivaapa.
I gave them all the billing details, discharge papers, everything.  I
applied.  After applying,
I get an email.  Some more
details were asked from me.  I gave all that.
After that the claim is not rejected.  Kept it
pending.  It's been 1 month.  It became
more than that.  It
is pending.  I asked what is the reason behind it?   Do you
know what reason he gave?
See this tweet of mine for a useless reason.  In this tweet
I have also written that the hospital is
asking me for money for something which was
never treated.  That's the only mention.  So to
explain, I will give my example.
For example, suppose I have a thyroid
problem, then everything would be written on the discharge summary,
brother, what have we treated him for,
whatever it is, I just wrote thyroid
patient so that he knows,
I gave it for example, the issue there was something else, they are
repeatedly telling me that we
need the details of the treatment you got done,
brother, from where will you give the details when that thing was never treated,
when it was not a problem at all, the
doctor neither took any money from us for it, nor
everything is written on the bill that we get before the discharge summary,
what money was taken, why the money was taken, for
what the money was taken, there was no
mention of any separate medicine or expense in it
which they were asking from me.
Where will I get it from?  What did you do to me again
?  Rejected it.  They are not saying that we will have to
give it.  We have a team of doctors.  This
is it, that is it.  Then I tweeted.
Well, after tweeting I found out something new.   It might
also be coming to your mind that brother, this
company is good, that company is good.
Because there are multiple companies in the market.
I am giving the official IRDAI link in the description of the video.
You
can go there and check how many companies there are.
So, you will get a lot of names.  There are
many popular names in health insurance.  There is
HDFC Ergo, Aditya Birla, Care
Health Insurance, Manipal Cigna Star
Health, Nueva Bappa, you will find many such.
So what happened?  When I tweeted,
I saw that many people were having problems with
different insurance companies.  So
you cannot think like this, you cannot say
that yes brother, a particular Nivapa or a particular
company is very good, the rest are
bad.  Everyone, yes, the claim settlement rate may
fluctuate a little.  I wo
n't be able to show all the replies.
I also read a lot on the internet.  It turns out
everyone's stories of holding or rejecting are different.  If brother, it is
not an original case and the documents are
not complete, then it will definitely happen.  If the second
document is also complete then it will be held.  Will be
harassed.  You will be
asked for unnecessary documents again and again and it all
depends on who got what treatment
?  Which hospital was it, which
insurance company is it, what excuse is it making.
They just look for excuses.  How should
it be held, how should it be stopped
so that their money can be saved?  Because those
companies have to make profits.  I will
talk a little about that now.  There is some issue
due to which the company tries more times to avoid it.
After my tweet, I get a call from him.
After that I got a couple more calls.  They are saying okay
we are processing it.  I said
what to do?  Tell me this finally.  He said, get
a letter written from the doctor stating that no such
treatment has been done.  So there
is no money to be made from this.  It was an extra normal
case.  So I went and got everything written down and gave it to him.  They are
asking me the same thing again and again.
Again, I
tweeted this one second.  I said, what is going on
brother?  Why is this happening?  Then I
also spoke to the agent who had arranged my health
insurance.  Everyone came in between.
Plus, calls started coming from above.  But
I had to use my image.  One day,
when I was recording some other video on camera, I got his call.  I think I will have that
video.  I will put the part here.
I don't know why my new Bhupa has
stopped this claim.  I do
n't know this till today.  The whole case is genuine.
Doctor is a letter.  Payment is upfront.  I
also said that I need the bank payment details.   So
I give you mine.  What do you
download?  I will
send the statement.  When everything is there then at the
time of taking my premium it is not said that
pay the premium after a month, I have paid the premium for 3 years in
advance and I am facing this issue,
from one basic, right now you have to
pay the very basic which I have claimed, if
something big happens tomorrow then
how will you pay, how will I trust
you, the hospital from which I went for treatment is of the
same name, yours
comes under cashless in Delhi, the one in Lucknow does not come,
please wait, I will
process this for you, please mention to your senior in that
also who I am.
Also, go to YouTube and search
Gyan Therapy once.  Right?
Mention in it whose account is this
and whose because all these things are definitely
a small amount of mine.  But if it is
not clear then I would like to discuss it in
detail later so that
awareness can
reach more people.  And the second thing I wanted to
know is this.  This means that
I am not even being told the amount for which my claim will be passed, whether it will be this much or how much.
He is saying that
when it is yours,
you will know when you get it.  This also remains hidden.
Sir, once the final decision comes, that is, once it is
approved, then I will
confirm to you that we will transfer this amount to you.
After the second tweet, I get a message within two days
that your claim has been passed.  We will
send you the money within the next two days.
And the money came.  The same thing came to my mind that
I am a normal person,
but what will happen to the one who does not have social media reach
?  What about the claim?  If we
check the data, then
according to IRDAI data,
if you see 232, 83% of the claims are getting passed.   The
remaining few percent get rejected here.
Some percentage is kept pending here.  Let's
hold it.  But the
truth here is different.  When I tweeted,
I came to know another thing that the
claims of many people which are passed are being
shown in 83%.  So he does
n't explain it properly.  They deduct the money and give it to you.  They are
not even paying the full amount.
How many people get rejected by them?  So
this 83% data is not accurate in such a way
that the full amount is received, if you see,
and this IRDAI, which I am mentioning,
if you do not know what it is, then it
is basically an authority, authority means like you
hear the name of TRAI, see the telecom companies, see the
name of SEBI, then it controls the stock market,
makes rules, makes regulations,
what does it do, it
passes rules related to health, it is at the
world level, similarly the
full name of IRDAI is
Insurance Regulatory and Department
Authority of India, it is a government
organization.  What does it do now?
So basically it makes the rules.  It approves
who can provide health insurance in the first place.
License can be obtained from them in a way.  Their
job is to ensure that awareness about health insurance is increased among people.   The
service should be made available to every village.
This is also their work.  People face this
problem that if any health
insurance company does not pass their claim or creates
problem in cashless transactions, then take this action against it.
Make strict rules for it so that
consumers do not face any problem.  The common man should
not face any problem.  All this on paper is their work.
But you also know that when anyone
becomes a regulator, he controls things.
What happens in these is that how can these
companies
take advantage of the rules and loop holes and
earn maximum profit.  This happens not only in health insurance but
in all departments.  And
any department should fulfill 100% of the promises
it makes.  This also does not happen.
So, brother, on IRDI also, many people say that it is
not able to pass even such tight rules.
Many times, I wanted to know some more things for these companies
because I am
not an expert in this, so what I did was take
help from Mahavir Chopra ji on Twitter. Many people had tagged him,
he
also has knowledge in this field, basically his
work is to suggest and provide health insurance to people,
so I said
let's talk to him, then I
messaged him, learned many things from him, we talked,
so I would like to say thank you to Mahavir ji
that you helped me
in giving more information to this video and I
also prepared some Google data, after reading all the things,
whatever summary comes out, I will
tell you.  Health insurance companies often
try to find a grey area to
hold your claim,
which may lead to some people getting frustrated and leaving,
or some people whose cases are not even genuine.
Many times people also commit fraud.   It's not like that.  When I
talked to a company, they said,
Sir, sometimes even the consumers commit fraud.
But what is our responsibility in that?
I have paid the premium.  It's your company.
You take care of him.  Make rules, check.  Do
as you wish.  What about the consumer in this? This is just an excuse
because
think of a case here, if you have gone cashless, there is a
hospital tie-up, okay, if due to some reason you are
not able to go cashless, at that time later
he thought it is a hurry or something, he had to pay the
money, he thought that he will take it
back later, if someone who had health insurance had
borrowed money from someone and
he said that he will return your money in a month, from whom he had
borrowed, from
where will he give that money after the treatment is done,
if the health insurance company will
unnecessarily delay the payment due to small things
because they too have a target, these
companies have not come to do any social service, be it a
health insurance company or a life
insurance company,
they have to make a profit for the entire year.  If they do
not see any profit and go into loss due to some reason
, then they start doing such strange things.
So, if any of you have
insurance in NIV bua, I
cannot say in this video whether it is bad
, good, or better than what.  Because
as I said, from the replies on the tweets, it
appears that different companies reject different people using
different excuses.
But it is also true that a large number of
claims are settled.  It helps a lot of people.
So here you have to keep some
things in mind.  If you
always go for health insurance then it may be
better for you.  The claims of the first three types
of people are passed easily.
Now I will also tell you what those who do not have it should do.  The
first
consumer is one who has a lot of self-knowledge and after doing
research, goes and buys health insurance.
He knows where we have to go if the company refuses.
How to complain.
He knows all these things.  Basically, a
fully aware and educated person can
directly go and
get health insurance from any company.  It will be easy for him to
pass.  Secondly, most people get
this work done through some agent or the other.   Can
also be done offline.
This work is also done online.  So whether it is offline or
online.  The agent must be a trustee.   The
agent should be like this.  Not only this, they
get commission.  But they may
sell you anything for the sake of commission.  It should not happen.  The
agent should be such that he
can give you better suggestion in an unbiased manner as to what is better for you
and when your claim is rejected
because you do not know that my claim is being
kept pending and is being rejected, then
how to get it passed, then that agent should
stand with you, he should help you, he should
not sell it and leave, the rest of the third person
whose claim will be passed easily or
you are Saif Ali Khan, you will remember the
case of his flat, a thief entered the flat and
then attacked, the claim of ₹25 lakh
within four hours was
passed by this very company, Nueva Bupa.  He
remembered his grandmother for Rs 75,000.  The simple reason
here was that he was Saif Ali Khan.
Brother, he went quickly and passed it.  Also spent ₹25 lakh on
marketing.  Whereas
questions were raised in this itself that first of all it was a criminal
case, not a crime case.  So a
police case also takes place.  There are a lot of processes.
Then the claim is passed.
How did it happen so quickly in 4 hours?
What about the health insurance company?  After
taking money from everyone, it has to return it to only a few people
and also invests the money.
Earns a lot of money.  This is how things work.
Basically, when the consumer is paying the money, the
claim should be passed.  So
many people make claims.  Actually,
in our India, as a consumer may
not sound good.  But the
prices of health insurance will
seem higher to you.  But
what is the cost of private hospitals, when you are
admitted in the hospital, how will they
charge the cost?  All private
hospitals also charge differently.
For the same problem, a hospital may
cost ₹6 lakh, ₹8 lakh.  A hospital
can also cure and send you back for ₹1 lakh.  There is a
target, brother, we have to earn this much.   The
hospital is also no less.  School
is the biggest business.  There are big schools, big businesses and
hospitals.  As many as these look, the
biggest one in the hospital no one can even say that they can
make it.  There are many such hospitals.  There
is little hospital.  That is a moving mall.
You will not smell any medicine in
it.  So all the maintenance and all the
money comes out of the customer's pocket.  Well, it
comes out of the patient's pocket, not the customer's.
So no matter how many bills the hospital makes,
when it prepares the overall data for the entire year for the health insurance company,
it does
not make that much profit.  Either
increase the cost of your health insurance
, increase the premium amount which also
increases a little every year.  So either the
government should come in between, get involved,
bring some rule on the hospital that brother,
charge only this much money, how much is being charged for this disease.
You basically understand that some such rule should come, right?  GST
exemption should be given on premium, as far as I know
GST is also involved in it.  A
common man faces problems even while paying the premium.
But when a common man reaches a hospital, they
kill him after taking money.
People's farms and houses are
sold.  Hospitals have become so expensive.
Basically, the
government will have to pay attention to the insurance company as well as the hospital.
Otherwise, in the coming time, these
health insurance companies are going to
increase the premium because they also have to make profits.
That's why he is sitting.  So
this is also a big reason due to which when you
call customer care or to whom
you apply for your claim, they are
taught how to reject it before approval and not everyone goes to the consumer
court.  A lot of customers, like
I said, you back off.  A lot of
people don't apply.  They say,
leave it, friend, who will be bothered?  So here the
hospital charges are also responsible.
Health insurance
companies are getting a bit pushed towards holding claims and rejections.  Hospitals should be
controlled, but big
hospitals or big schools often go to the people
who
make these rules.  If the government
itself runs the government, then how can it control
?  So the next tip is to try to find
a good hospital. Mostly,
good hospitals are in tie-ups with
the health insurance company
whose health insurance you are taking should be
in tie-ups with them in your area, even as far as you can reach, so that you can go cashless. This
cashless system is
easier because once everything is
verified, the money is disbursed. There are
some rules in it too. There is a cap.
Some health insurance companies have
different premiums. VIP rooms are available,
some do not have it. You should find out about all this.
But cashless is always better than
settling later. But the thing is that a person has to go to a
hospital, he is concerned about a doctor, he goes to the
best doctor.
But sometimes
these problems arise, so cashless can be better. Or
if you face any problem,
then what should you do? If you
are not Saif Ali Khan, you can tweet on Twitter.
They will pay attention. The chances of settlement
increase significantly. But the same thing is that the
tweet should have reach or someone from that company's
health insurance company should reach him.
Contact the authority, if you get the email, it has a
governance department,
you can email them and if you
are right then do not step back but they may get a little worried.
Some people
are also responsible for this, some hospitals or some
people, not many, but
they also commit fraud with the health insurance company.  They
make fake bills, they
make fake bills.  So these are some tips that
you will have to keep in mind.  So it is not my daily
job to give such videos, so I
tried to add some information.
Rest you can watch other videos.
Like LLA, they have made some videos
on health insurance companies, you can also watch them
on the internet or
Google the other videos.  Increase your knowledge.
If you go to the IRDAI website, there is
life insurance and general insurance.
What does a general insurance company do?
Also provides health insurance.
They provide multiple insurance.  And
look at some other health insurance companies, the
names are mentioned here.  General ones also
provide health insurance.  But this is especially
because their main target is health
insurance.  So there are chances that these
companies can provide slightly better service.
Do some research.  See who is
passing more claims and who is rejecting more.  It's
hard to say one because no
one has a 100% satisfaction rate.
Apart from this, you can also tell in the comment section with whom you had
good or bad experience.
This was in today's video.  I
hope you learned something
from the video.  You can share the video
with your friends and acquaintances.  I will see
you in the next video